Update “Extend Kubernetes” concept overview (#34734)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/_index.md

find it useful as an introduction to what extension points and patterns exist, and their
trade-offs and limitations.

Customization approaches can be broadly divided into [configuration](#configuration), which only

> involves changing command line arguments, local configuration files, or API resources; and [extensions](#extensions),

Reviewer: nit: I like the content in the overview. Is it possible to break up the first sentence or create a list and then descriptions of the two types of customization approaches?

* configuration
* extensions

Author: This is existing text, I just added hyperlinks. I don't feel like I can write what you're imagining here @kbhawkey.

Could you use the Suggestion feature of GitHub or write the text you'd like to see?

* [`kube-controller-manager`](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-controller-manager/)
* [`kube-scheduler`](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-scheduler/)
* [`kubelet`](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet/)
* [`kube-proxy`](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-proxy/)

Command arguments and configuration files may not always be changeable in a hosted Kubernetes service or a
distribution with managed installation. When they are changeable, they are usually only changeable
by the cluster operator. Also, they are subject to change in future Kubernetes versions, and
setting them may require restarting processes. For those reasons, they should be used only when
there are no other options.

Built-in *policy APIs*, such as [ResourceQuota](/docs/concepts/policy/resource-quotas/),
[NetworkPolicy](/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/) and Role-based Access Control
([RBAC](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/)), are built-in Kubernetes APIs that provide declaratively configured policy settings.
APIs are typically usable even with hosted Kubernetes services and with managed Kubernetes installations.

> These declarative APIs follow the same conventions as other Kubernetes resources such as Pods,

Reviewer: nit: Are the APIs declarative (not sure what that means) or should it read,
The built-in policy APIs follow the same conventions as other Kubernetes resources such as Pods.

Author: > The built-in policy APIs follow the same conventions as other Kubernetes resources such as Pods.

SGTM

so new cluster configuration can be repeatable and be managed the same way as applications.

> And, where the APIs are stable, they enjoy a

Reviewer: nit: And, where the APIs are stable, they *enjoy* a

Does this edit make sense:
The built-in policy APIs are stable and adhere to the Kubernetes API [defined support policy](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy).

Author: Not all built-in policy APIs are stable. For example, PodSecurityPolicy which is built-in but deprecated and won't graduate.

component. In the Kubernetes ecosystem, even synchronous HTTP callouts are often
described as “webhooks”.
{{< /note >}}

In the webhook model, Kubernetes makes a network request to a remote service.
With the alternative *binary Plugin* model, Kubernetes executes a binary (program).
Binary plugins are used by the kubelet (for example, [CSI storage plugins](https://kubernetes-csi.github.io/docs/)
and [CNI network plugins](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/network-plugins/)),
and by kubectl (see [Extend kubectl with plugins](/docs/tasks/extend-kubectl/kubectl-plugins/)).

### Extension points

This diagram shows the extension points in a Kubernetes cluster and the
clients that access it.

<!-- image source: https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/1k2YdJgNTtNfW7_A8moIIkij-DmVgEhNrn3y2OODwqQQ/view -->

{{< figure src="/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/extension-points.png"
    alt="Symbolic representation of seven numbered extension points for Kubernetes"
    class="diagram-large" caption="Kubernetes extension points" >}}

#### Key to the figure

1. Users often interact with the Kubernetes API using `kubectl`. [Plugins](#client-extensions)

>    customise the behaviour of clients. There are generic extensions that can apply to different clients,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   customize the behavior of clients. There are generic extensions that can apply to different clients,
```

   as well as specific ways to extend `kubectl`.

1. The API server handles all requests. Several types of extension points in the API server allow
   authenticating requests, or blocking them based on their content, editing content, and handling
   deletion. These are described in the [API Access Extensions](#api-access-extensions) section.

> 1. The API server serves various kinds of *resources*. *Built-in resource kinds*, such as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The Kubernetes API server supports various kinds of *resources*. *Built-in resource kinds*, such as
```

## API extensions

### Custom resource definitions

Consider adding a _Custom Resource_ to Kubernetes if you want to define new controllers, application
configuration objects or other declarative APIs, and to manage them using Kubernetes tools, such
as `kubectl`.

For more about Custom Resources, see the
[Custom Resources](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) concept guide.

### API aggregation layer

You can use Kubernetes' [API Aggregation Layer](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/apiserver-aggregation/)
to integrate the Kubernetes API with additional services such as for [metrics](/docs/tasks/debug/debug-cluster/resource-metrics-pipeline/).

### Combining new APIs with automation

A combination of a custom resource API and a control loop is called the
{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="controller" text="controllers" >}} pattern. If your controller takes
the place of a human operator deploying infrastructure based on a desired state, then the controller
may also be following the {{< glossary_tooltip text="operator pattern" term_id="operator-pattern" >}}.

> The Operator pattern is used to manage specific applications; usually, these are applications that

Reviewer: nit: could remove the semi-colon and shorten the sentence

The Operator pattern is used to manage applications which maintain state and require care in how they are managed.

  restricts what images can be run in containers.
* To make arbitrary admission control decisions, a general
  [Admission webhook](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#admission-webhooks)
  can be used. Admission webhooks can reject creations or updates.
  Some admission webhooks modify the incoming request data before it is handled further by Kubernetes.

## Infrastructure extensions

### Device plugins

> _Device plugins_ allow a node to discover new Node resources (in addition to the

Reviewer: In addition to the built-in Node resources (cpu and memory), _Device plugins_ allow a node to discover new resources through a [Device Plugin](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/).

Author: I'm not sure that the wording you suggest would be idiomatic @kbhawkey, and maybe it could be misunderstood.

How about:
- Kubernetes is aware of built-in node-level system resources, such as `cpu` and `memory`.
  Kubernetes [device plugins](https://github.com/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/) allow a node to discover kinds of resources and make those available to the cluster, so that the scheduler can allocate those resources to Pods.

Reviewer: Sure, I think I crossed paths when editing. Your first sentence looks good. The second sentence could be shortened (...so that the ...).

Reviewer: From earlier in the file:

You can use [Device Plugins](#device-plugins) to integrate custom hardware or other special
   node-local facilities, and make these available to Pods running in your cluster. The kubelet
   includes support for working with device plugins.

And I think I read in one of the other pages in this PR (compute-storage-net):

Device plugins allow a node to discover new Node facilities (in addition to the
  built-in node resources such as `cpu` and `memory`), and provide these custom node-local
  facilities to Pods that request them.

Author: Sounds like it might be useful to update the glossary and make the working consistent.

This is a significant undertaking, and almost all Kubernetes users find they
do not need to modify the scheduler.

You can control which [scheduling plugins](/docs/reference/scheduling/config/#scheduling-plugins)
are active, or associate sets of plugins with different named [scheduler profiles](/docs/reference/scheduling/config/#multiple-profiles).
You can also write your own plugin that integrates with one or more of the kube-scheduler's
[extension points](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/scheduling-framework/#extension-points).

> Finally, built in `kube-scheduler` component also supports a

Reviewer: nit: Finally, the built-in `kube-scheduler` component supports a [webhook]() that ...
